hey everybody JK are here and welcome to
the commentary for december two thousand
and tens fan favorite cartoon santa scab
is coming to town it was a tremendously
close race this month unlike last month
and winning by only two votes was indeed
santa scab is coming to town i feel kind
of bad because always the bridesmaid
never the bride second place once again
goes to wake me up when we're at e3 and
third place is taken by fred in 2010
kind of the last fred cartoon in the old
style before the changeover so there you
have it let's go dive right into the
commentary and afterwards be sure to
stick around because there will be a
special deleted scene never before seen
that i originally wrote and recorded but
never got a chance to animate because i
ran out of time so that's something to
look forward to so without further ado I
present Santa scab is coming to town the
first thing I want to talk about is the
shark cage in the opening sequence here
you'll note that it drops a little tiny
bit every time hip pulls the rope which
I thought was a really neat effect it's
something that you might not notice
straight out but there's a subtle little
thing right there where it just kind of
shakes a little bit it's a subtle little
thing that I think added to the
animation you'll note I spent a whole
lot of time on that and not any time on
moving the characters around because
they barely move at all also the rope in
the corner there I also spent a
tremendous amount of time on you would
not think that making rope would exactly
be sure difficult i guess but i wanted
to get it lined up perfectly and with
the whole animation as is pulling at it
it was just a nightmare but i eventually
got it on this plan of scabs originally
it was going to be a color and not done
terribly ugly but then of course time
started running low so i tried it in
this style and I kind of liked the
concept of cab just scribbling it down
and are showing
space chicken that part where it said to
do create complex machine parts I didn't
have an idea for what that was going to
be so now I just kind of put in a
fillers oh I do like how scab wrote a
note at the bottom of the clan to
himself that said this is totally gonna
work that part just makes me smile light
here you'll notice basic ins eyes don't
move while he's reading what's that
about it's about me and not having
enough time again she saw for me here
this part coming up is my favorite I
just loved it sorry but uh oh that's it
that makes me giggle shut up I think it
just pushes from out of the way Oh
little genius mama you really the
deleted scene that you'll see at the
annual happened right there so again
you'll see that one at work I around
probably is seeing every trap ever made
this joke here where skem says not with
that attitude negative nancy i wanted it
to be better and if I'd have moved him
around more it would have been but oh
well that clock is gorgeous don't you
think I love that clock and I never used
it again to my knowledge but I must have
spent a lot of time on it because it
turned out pretty well unlike this
terrible couch that's ugly and I really
need to redo that there's another favor
got a ball full and silly Victor's got a
bowl full of jelly now sucker I love it
that on a t-shirt but I don't know if
I'm gonna do that it's just a fun line
uh here fred was supposed to hold up a
cookie when he said these were really
good good old and they're hers own st.
Cabo himself who doesn't move much
either and just kind of disappears into
sparkle without any sound effect and as
that final shot of
was supposed to be trying to look pan
out as he just kind of cried out into
the night but what not but Fred there's
another fun little thing I didn't have
any music from bdd be this year that I
did this so I did that Oh Alton Brown of
myself on the piano and the reason that
it didn't continue any further was
actually because I didn't know how to
play the piano so I only managed to get
that part done so there you have it the
full commentary full disclosure of all
the mistakes and horrible things that
happens with the creation of that
cartoon regardless I still enjoy it
there are some jokes in there as I said
with the whole shut up and then pushing
pip and now who's got a bowl full of
jelly now I just enjoy those parts so
all in all a great cartoon that I still
enjoy to this day even though I sit back
shake my head and think what was I doing
with my time if I didn't have any time
to animate anything I think I was just
rushed too much so I'm glad these days I
take my time a little bit more so that
hopefully the commentaries for newer
cartoons will not be looking back and
saying oh and there's where I didn't
have time and there's where I didn't
have time and oh right there I didn't
have any time ok so let's be honest
you're just here for the deleted scene
all this commentary nonsense you could
take that or leave it but you just want
some new stuff so let's get right into
that deleted scene it happens right in
the middle of the cartoon so I included
a bit of a lead up to it so part of it
you'll will have seen before it takes
place in a little flashback which I
always enjoy flashbacks so I hope you
enjoy
shut up you know most people just try to
be good to get things on their Christmas
list from Santa yeah I heard in fact I
tried that this past year
okay 2007 is gonna be the year I do this
thing just 365 days of being good and
that sad old man in red wap no choice
but to give me everything I want hey
skip happy new year oh darn it Fred I
gave it my all it was impossible
so there you have it the explanation for
why scab failed at being good the
previous year but seriously who can
blame him I mean fred was asking for
trouble with comments like happy new
year what what's that about scab can't
be blamed for that right maybe a little
bit so that about wraps up things for
this month be sure to stop by Fred the
monkey calm and vote in next month's
competition there should be a link on
the screen right now I'm going to try
and put one in but you'll forgive me
because I am new to this YouTube thing
so i don't know if i will have succeeded
at the time of recording this but if i
did succeed it will be on the screen
right now and if I didn't succeed then
it wasn't because I'm too dumb to figure
it out I just didn't feel like it so
there I hope you'll stay tuned to Fred
the monkey calm for all sorts of new
cartoon updates and have a merry
christmas and happy holidays everybody